>> REGINA MEREDITH:
I'm here in Scottsdale,
Arizona at the
International UFO Congress,
where I've had a chance to catch
up with some of the top experts
in the field.
Yesterday I spoke
with David Marler,
who is an expert in examining
the increasing instances
and sightings of those shadowy
triangular craft in the sky.
David, you've been
interested in this subject
since the age of five.
So one might say,
what happened at five?
>> DAVID MARLER: [LAUGHS]
>> REGINA: What
movie did you see?
>> MARLER: Well, I don't recall
seeing any particular movie.
But in 1973, there was a
famous wave of UFO sightings
in and around the town
of Piedmont, Missouri,
and it garnered a lot
of local media attention
in the St. Louis area,
where I lived at the time.
Of particular note,
the primary witness
that really launched the wave
of sightings, so to speak,
the first
well-publicized sighting,
was by a man named Reggie Bone.
And Reggie Bone happened to be
my dad's best friend growing up
in and around the area
of Piedmont, Missouri.
And I remember at age
five the excitement
surrounding the sightings
that were occurring,
the fact that local media
was going down there.
And a lot of St. Louis residents
were gravitating down there
to quote, unquote, "look for
UFOs on weekends," driving out
there with their thermoses
of coffee and what have you.
And so I heard
about that, and then
I also saw the excitement
within my own home.
My father was always
interested in the UFO subject.
And both he and my sister
and my older brothers
were piling in the car, like a
lot of people were at the time,
and rushing down there,
spending the night,
and then driving back.
>> REGINA: What a fun
thing for a little kid.
>> MARLER: It was exciting.
But I was five
years old, so I was
tasked with the job of
staying home and staying
with my mother, who
had, as I like to say,
as much in the
way of disinterest
regarding the UFO subject.
>> REGINA: Aw.
>> MARLER: But they
would come back,
and I would be picking
up on this excitement,
because they had talked
to police officers.
They had talked to
citizens down there that
were reporting seeing
these very unusual lights
and object in the sky.
>> REGINA: Did they get some
good photography back in that
day of these objects?
>> MARLER: They actually
obtained a lot of good
photographic evidence,
and not just photographs,
photographic evidence.
Because one of
the gentleman that
went down there at the time
was Dr. Harley Rutledge,
who was the physics professor
from Southeast Missouri State
University.
And he took infrared
photography.
He took standard photography.
They were measuring the lights.
They were measuring the angular
distance of these things.
And he was initially a skeptic.
But after several years of
doing field work down there
and collecting data
real time in the field,
he wrote a book,
"Project Identification"
and went from being a UFO
skeptic to a quote, unquote,
"UFO believer."
And so it was a very
interesting time.
>> REGINA: Now these were during
that time more of saucers,
the saucer shaped craft.
>> MARLER: Down in that area,
they were reporting saucers.
They were reporting
lights in the sky.
Absolutely.
>> REGINA: And the
feeling that people had,
from what you just said,
was one of excitement.
This was hopeful.
This was an exciting outing
of potential contact, right?
>> MARLER: Absolutely.
As a matter of fact, I have a
huge case file of the newspaper
articles from the time where
they're interviewing people,
and at no time do you find any
apprehension, any nervousness,
or anything like that.
People were just in
the state of wonder.
What were these UFOs?
Why are they suddenly here?
And it basically woke up a
sleepy little agricultural
community, because other
than that there wasn't
much going on in
that small town.
>> REGINA: Well,
let me as you this.
Was there any other phenomena
that followed in its wake?
You know how sometimes when
you have a lot, a clus--
you know what I'm saying.
>> MARLER: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: When you have
a cluster of sightings,
people have maybe a different
aptitude that awakens
or a different
feeling about life.
Do yo know what I'm saying?
>> MARLER: Some of the
witnesses had that experience.
In addition to that, they
had some Bigfoot sightings
down there at the time.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> MARLER: So there were some
witnesses claiming to have seen
Bigfoot, claimING
to have seen UFOs.
So in that sense, yeah,
it seems like maybe they
were opened up to
other possibilities.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> MARLER: But it definitely
made an indelible impression.
In fact, my father's aunt just
passed away several years ago,
just about six, seven years ago.
She was in her
90s, and she still
used to recount the
stories of the UFO
sightings and the people
that she knew in that area.
Because it was a
very small community.
Everyone knew everyone.
>> REGINA: And that's a
life-altering experience.
>> MARLER: It is.
>> REGINA: And not only that,
to have the joy of having
experienced it together
as a community.
>> MARLER: That's a good
point, because it really was
a community atmosphere.
The sheriff endorsed
the fact that, yes,
there are credible
sightings occurring here.
Denny Hovis, who was one of
the radio station operators--
I met him several years
ago and interviewed him--
and he ran the
local radio station.
And the sense of
community came through.
Because people would either
go to the police station,
or if the sheriff wasn't
in they would go over
to Denny at the radio
station because he
was broadcasting and
talking about it.
So people were readily
coming in with new accounts
of what they had seen
the night before.
So it was very much so
a community atmosphere.
>> REGINA: And did you
say this was around 1973?
>> MARLER: '73 is when
it started, April of '73.
And then it continued
on for several years,
depending on who you talk to.
>> REGINA: OK.
That was '73.
All right.
And so if we go back into the
'40s and even prior to that
and all the classic
types of sightings
and some of the other
people I've interviewed
and the archives
of some of them,
like George Adamski and others,
these kinds of experiences
with the beings-- now
there were many people that
were taken aboard these
craft, it sounds like.
And there is even some testimony
that President Eisenhower
was one of those
individuals that
may have gone on board a craft.
>> MARLER: Correct.
>> REGINA: OK?
And so we're looking at a
type of elevated conversation
that was happening aboard.
In each case, the
people, the witnesses--
I won't say abductees--
those who went on board,
talk about being shown
technology, future,
the capabilities of humankind,
what we could evolve into,
higher thought, so to speak.
>> MARLER: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
>> REGINA: But somewhere along
the way, something changed.
And when you come to events
like this at the UFO Congress,
you hear the full spectrum.
>> MARLER: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: And so you
have the light of it,
which happens to be-- now I
think it's important to note
these were human contacts in all
of those cases in the past with
the saucers.
>> MARLER: Yes.
>> REGINA: Kind of like "The Day
the Earth Stood Still," right?
>> MARLER: The early accounts
of direct contact were with
the space brothers, were
with humanoid or human-like
individuals.
>> REGINA: Like Valiant Thor.
>> MARLER: They
looked just like us.
Exactly, Valiant Thor.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> MARLER: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: So they're
usually very good-looking,
well-dressed human beings.
>> MARLER: Yes, very
eloquent, very well-educated.
They just have an aura about
them, as is often described.
>> REGINA: That was recognizable
as being something more
elegant, more elevated,
more something.
>> MARLER: Different.
>> REGINA: That je ne sais quoi.
>> MARLER: Exactly.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> MARLER: As good
a word as any.
>> REGINA: Well, that je ne sais
quoi isn't feeling the same way
now with the types of abductions
that we're hearing more about.
>> MARLER: Right.
>> REGINA: John Mack and his
work studied quite a bit.
You go into great detail,
so it's indisputable
that these triangular
craft, these deltoid craft
have been sighted all
over the planet for quite
a long time now.
>> MARLER: Absolutely.
There's a long, rich history.
>> REGINA: I'm
wondering about that.
We'll just start with feelings.
What is the feeling of
people when they encounter
those particular craft, as
opposed to the days in Missouri
when you were young?
>> MARLER: Well, I think
just by virtue of the objects
themselves that are reported,
the scale of these objects are
somewhat intimidating
to a lot of witnesses.
I wouldn't say necessarily
fear, but intimidation
is a feeling that is often
conveyed by the witnesses,
because they're so large and
they're directly overhead.
As I describe in
my book, they're
unambiguous UFO sightings.
It's not a matter of
did I see something?
It was bloody obvious that
they had seen something.
>> REGINA: Thousands of people
see it because it's a mile long
and it's hovering overhead.
>> MARLER: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> MARLER: So just based on the
description of these objects,
the scale, it conveys a sense
of intimidation coupled with
the fact that these reports
are described as being,
more often than not, silent.
So you have a large object--
the size of a football field
is a typical description--
completely silent hovering
500 to 1,000 feet
above your head.
Regardless if it's
extraterrestrial or military,
something that large
hovering over your head
not making a sound
conveys some intimidation.
>> REGINA: Yes, it does.
>> MARLER: And I interviewed a
woman that had a sighting back
in 2000.
And this was in
the Chicago area,
and she had a sighting
with her husband.
And both of them came off
as straight-laced as anyone
you could possibly ever meet.
And as they're
describing the sighting,
I can see the non-verbal
body language.
I see her fidgeting.
I see her getting anxious.
You physically could see
her reliving the event.
And to this day, she
says, I get goosebumps
when I still talk
about it to this day.
And so the very nature of
these triangular UFO sightings,
relative to small flying
discs for example,
the reaction's quite different.
>> REGINA: Is it fair to ask
if you have any testimony
of people who have been, A,
abducted or have gone on board
the triangular craft and
if there is a substantive
or qualitative difference
in the experience,
as opposed to the ones explained
earlier by these gentleman
wearing suits?
>> MARLER: Now in doing
my historical research,
as you can appreciate, most of
that was garnered from military
reports and newspaper articles,
which at the time, and which,
of course, we're talking '40s,
'50s, '60s, none of that was
ever referenced
in the newspaper.
>> REGINA: No, of course not.
>> MARLER: So I like
to qualify that.
As a result, the historical
evidence I uncovered
didn't have any ties to
the abduction phenomenon.
Now that being said, since
talking about my research,
since writing the
book, I have had
a lot of people
contacting me claiming
to have had abduction
experiences associated
with these large triangular UFO.
>> REGINA: Let's
talk about that.
>> MARLER: Well, one of the
researchers that assisted me
in my research is Omar
Fowler from the UK.
And Omar had been investigating
these triangular UFOs
for many years.
He had been investing
the phenomenon
in general for decades.
And he has a number-- I
believe he quotes one or two
cases in my book in the
section that he contributed--
from his files of
an abduction account
involving these triangular UFOs.
And to your point, it's
definitely a marked difference
compared to the space brother
narratives that we were hearing
back in the '50s, with regard
to the contactee movement.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> MARLER: It's a very dark
departure, you might say,
from the messages and the
general overtones of those
early encounters.
>> REGINA: Any details at all
embedded in that somewhere?
>> MARLER: Insofar as--?
>> REGINA: What the
experience was like.
>> MARLER: With the
space brothers or the--?
>> REGINA: No, no.
>> MARLER: With the abductions.
Well, first and
foremost, I think,
you have on its very
nature the experience
in how it's introduced.
For example, with
the space brothers,
they usually just
didn't suddenly appear
and it scared the witness.
They would communicate.
There would be some type of
telepathic communication,
in most instances.
Of course there were
variations in the reports,
but for the most part
there was some type
of psychic communication,
telepathic communication.
The individual
would be instructed
to go to a certain location.
And then suddenly this
beautiful spaceship
would manifest itself, this
beautiful flying saucer
and would slowly set down.
And then the door would open,
and a being would come out,
and they would
converse, or they would
have the individual
come on board.
So from a mental
processing standpoint--
>> REGINA: That's a
little more graceful.
>> MARLER: It's more graceful.
And you're taking
it in baby steps.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> MARLER: And so anyone,
I think, whether you or I,
if we were in a similar
situation we could gradually
acclimate to that situation.
It's kind of like easing
into a hot bathtub.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> MARLER: I'm slowly kind
of acclimating to this.
I can deal with this.
Whereas with the
abduction accounts,
it's quite different,
quite contrary to that,
in the sense that many of
these abduction accounts
occur in the middle
of the night.
And as I like to mention,
there are some people
that casually will talk about
their abduction experience,
and it's almost like
a badge of honor.
And as an investigator,
I question
the veracity of many claims.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> MARLER: And as I've often
communicated to my colleagues
in the field, if I was abducted,
if you came into my bedroom
in the middle of the night
and were standing at the foot
of my bed, I'm probably
going to scream--
>> REGINA: Right.
Like a girl.
>> MARLER: --let alone if you're
a little bald-headed little
extraterrestrial
standing next to my bed.
And what I find with
some of the abduction
accounts is the casual
blase way that they
explain how suddenly
these beings were
at the foot of their bed and
they were taken aboard a craft.
What I find much more
compelling are the people,
as I mentioned earlier, where
you see the non-verbal body
language.
You see the fidgeting,
the twitching.
You can see the
respiration changing
as they start to describe
and relive these incidents.
And I think that
has the hallmarks
of a genuine traumatic event.
Now, admittedly, some people
have had repeated experiences,
and they say over time
I've acclimated to it.
I've come to grips with it.
John Mack even alludes to
that in some of his research,
that initially it was viewed
as something negative,
but over time they may still
view it in a negative way
but they at least have been
able to in a healthy way
incorporate it into their lives.
But the nature of the UFO
experience and the abduction
experience, it's not
like the early contactees
where they had time to
mentally process it.
>> REGINA: Has any of
it been affiliated with
the triangular-shaped
craft, these abductions?
>> MARLER: The abductions, yes.
As I mentioned,
I've been contacted
since my book's
publication by people.
And ironically enough, that's
one of the number one questions
I get asked when I do
interviews and lectures.
What about the abduction?
Do you have any abduction
accounts tied to it?
And again, I
qualify it by saying
the book is based on
historical reports, which
is not going to touch on that.
You're not going to
find that in newspapers
of the 1940s and 1950s.
>> REGINA: No.
Because you're a very
careful researcher, and I
understand that.
>> MARLER: Yes.
>> REGINA: We're
departing from that.
That's right.
>> MARLER: That's not to say
that that activity was not
going on then.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> MARLER: But I can only
speak to what I've been able
to document.
>> REGINA: Now talking with
Timothy Good, or Tim Good--
>> MARLER: Sure.
>> REGINA: --he also talks
about this division somehow
in the agendas.
And I think it's fair to
say, because the triangular
craft were witnessed as early
as the late 1800s, right?
>> MARLER: Based on my research,
that's the earliest account
that I can find, and, of course,
then subsequent sightings after
that in the late 19th
and early 20th century.
>> REGINA: Well,
so first of all,
that takes the military
implication away.
We didn't have flight then.
>> MARLER: That's kind of my
thought on the matter, yeah.
I think that just kind of
blows it out of the water.
>> REGINA: That's right.
It blows it out of the water.
But what it's sounding like--
and it's almost naive to say
this, because you would
say, well, sure, why not?--
that there have been these
conflicting agendas with beings
from various parts of
the cosmos all along.
>> MARLER: And that's
a distinct possibility.
Because people question.
We had flying saucers.
Now you're talking
about triangular UFOs.
Triangular UFOs have surpassed
the classic flying saucers
in reports, based on the
statistics that I've looked at.
>> REGINA: And also so
have the negative reports,
in terms of abductions
and contact.
>> MARLER: Yes.
>> REGINA: It's become
increasingly dark.
>> MARLER: Yes.
>> REGINA: Now when I
was speaking with one
of your colleagues yesterday,
they were mentioning that,
in fact, some of our astronauts
and people in air forces around
the world, the more
elite team members,
were given technology by some
of the alien species to actually
utilize.
>> MARLER: Sure.
>> REGINA: And it was
telepathically communicated
to them.
You may need a leg up.
You may need a leg up now,
because there are others here
that may not have your
best interest at heart.
>> MARLER: I was just going
to say, for what reason?
For what purpose?
And that's where I was
going to go with that.
Is it suggestive of--
>> REGINA: Please.
>> MARLER: Well, no, that's
what I was just going to ask.
It's like, we need
a leg up for what?
That implies that we need
a leg up for something,
that we need to
prepare for something.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> MARLER: And it's quite
possible we're dealing with--
and I think that that's part
of the complexity of trying
to understand the UFO
phenomenon is many researchers,
and I've been guilty of this
myself in the earlier days,
we're trying to put everything,
every aspect of this
investigation into one box.
>> REGINA: No can do.
>> MARLER: And I think
what we're dealing with,
if I can use the analogy, it's
like sitting a five-year-old
child down and messing with
their head by taking four
different puzzles but putting
it in one box and saying,
here you go.
Put this puzzle together.
And I think that's what we're--
>> REGINA: Good point.
>> MARLER: --dealing with.
And to your point, we may be
dealing with intelligences,
plural, and agendas, plural.
And that just makes it damn hard
for UFO researchers like myself
to try to resolve all of these
anomalous experiences and cases
and trying to make
sense out of it all.
But I really do
suspect that we're
dealing with multiple
agendas and potentially
multiple intelligences.
>> REGINA: And that
actually make sense.
When you look at
the history and you
look at each person
that presents here,
that's how you end up with
a divided community, one.
It should not be divided.
>> MARLER: No.
>> REGINA: Because one says,
no, this is the experience
that's happening.
It's not all like Val Thor,
Stranger at the Pentagon,
in a beautiful navy blue suit.
There's some creepy
little guys that we
didn't want to be with
that took us on-board.
>> MARLER: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: And then you have the
community that sits somewhere
in between that says, yes, but
if we can just embrace a larger
agenda, perhaps, a cosmic type
of agenda and understand that
the little guys that seem
to be coming and hybridizing
and working with the human seed
to revitalize their own race
are doing nothing any different
than we might do if we were
in that kind of state
of decline ourselves.
>> MARLER: Well, and obviously
it's hard to speculate about
alien intelligences.
By their very definition,
they're alien.
>> REGINA: Yes, exactly.
>> MARLER: We don't
understand how they think,
their philosophies on life.
But if we are dealing with
multiple intelligences,
I would suspect,
because I can only
go based on human experience,
we're diverse as individuals.
As one species, we're diverse.
And we have the good.
We have the bad.
We have the ugly.
I think it's naive
to assume that we
have an extraterrestrial
intelligence
or intelligences
interacting with us
and they all fall
under one category.
They're all good.
They're all bad.
I think there's a
complex diversity to it.
And nothing in
life is so simple.
I've actually had people
pose the idea, getting
back to what you were
talking about about
flying saucers versus
triangles, oh, the grays
fly the triangles,
and they're evil,
and the space brothers
fly the flying saucers,
and they have our best
interests at heart.
To me, from a
visceral standpoint,
it just sounds too simplistic.
>> MARLER: Yes.
>> REGINA: That sounds
like you're trying to talk
to a child about the
basics of good and evil.
And what else in life
is that simplistic?
>> REGINA: That's true.
Because, again-- even though
that's kind of where I was
headed in this
conversation, just to say,
have there been qualitative
differences in the experience
connected with the shape of
craft?-- on the other hand,
even within those cultures,
again you have, as you say,
the good, bad, and the evil.
>> MARLER: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: What if you have a
culture that maybe may not have
the level of what we recognize
as human compassion but they
see in a larger sense that you
on some level subconsciously
or on a soul level have
agreed to do this with us?
I'm sorry you don't remember.
And then there's
that camp as well.
>> MARLER: And even within
human politics-- again,
I can only use humans as kind
of a point of comparison--
you have the political
party, whichever one you tend
to choose, that
has their agenda.
But as we all know, there's
individual politicians
that are following that agenda
that have their own agendas.
>> REGINA: Yes.
That is true.
>> MARLER: I don't think that it
needs to be quite so simplistic
that there's this alien and this
is their philosophy and this is
why they're here.
I think it's a complex
situation we're dealing with,
and I don't think we can
put it into a simple box.
>> REGINA: I agree.
And you would hear that--
looking at disclosure,
for example, I was at the
original disclosure in-- what
was it?-- May of 2001 or '02.
>> MARLER: 2001.
>> REGINA: 2001.
That's right.
In Washington DC,
National Press Club.
And so I was privy behind
the scenes with Greer's group
to speaking with virtually
all of the witnesses
and watching what
they went through.
And their experience was as
diverse as this conversation
in terms of what
they encountered,
from Clifford Stone
to a little ET who
was frightened and trying
to communicate with him.
>> MARLER: Right.
>> REGINA: We have feelings
too, and I'm frightened.
>> MARLER: Right.
>> REGINA: Right?
And Clifford has teared up every
time he even speaks about it--
>> MARLER: Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
>> REGINA: --to the appearance
of the ET over the military
base with the silos,
with the nuclear silos--
>> MARLER: Malmstrom.
>> REGINA: --saying, people,
we're not going to let you do
this.
>> MARLER: That's right.
>> REGINA: You're not
using these irresponsibly.
>> MARLER: That's right.
>> REGINA: That's intimidating,
but toward what end, right?
>> MARLER: What's
the ultimate goal?
>> REGINA: What's
>> MARLER: Exactly.
A child thinks that a parent's
bad when they get spanked.
But as we know, it's for
the child's own good,
in most cases.
Or the child doesn't
like the doctor
because he sticks a needle
in my arm and that hurts.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> MARLER: But we know that
the doctor's interest is
for the greater good.
>> REGINA: Oh, the original
disclosure, the testimony--
for anybody that hasn't
seen that, it's on YouTube--
>> MARLER: Everyone
needs to see this.
>> REGINA: --is
absolutely amazing.
>> MARLER: Everyone
needs to see this.
>> REGINA: That was a
profound event in history.
>> MARLER: I have a psychology
professor that's a personal
friend of mine, and he's very
interested in the UFO subject,
and he always goes back to
that disclosure project.
>> REGINA: And it
was interesting,
because the room was packed.
And of course, on American
media, there was one,
I think a local Washington,
DC ABC affiliate
did a little report.
And of course, it
made fun of it.
>> MARLER: Yeah, of course.
>> REGINA: And the room was
packed with media from all over
the world, and the
US heard nothing.
>> MARLER: You simply cannot
ignore the testimony of these
men and women based
on their credentials.
>> REGINA: No.
Right down to the
structures on the moon
that are scrubbed out at
the photographic department
of NASA, and her job
was to scrub the photos.
Anything that looked
anomalous was to be scrubbed.
>> MARLER: And what's
interesting is--
>> REGINA: Karl Wolf.
>> MARLER: --even with
these individuals telling
their individual testimony,
there are certain parallels.
Even though they're not
telling the same story,
you can see that it's following
a similar agenda, based
on what they had observed during
their time in the military
or during their tenure involving
intelligence communities.
But it's all pointing
to one agenda,
and that's namely keeping the
information from the public,
downplaying the information.
And I think that's become
readily apparent based
on anyone that's taken even a
cursory examination of the UFO
phenomenon.
>> REGINA: What do you have
to say about the split within
the community?
Because the community's
always badmouthing each other
and competing with one
another, saying their ETs
are the only ones that
actually are impacting us.
They say, no, our ETs are.
>> MARLER: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: It's so immature.
How do you expect people
behaving in this way
to take a movement forward?
And then there are people like
the ones I've spoken with,
like you and Timothy Good and
Glenn Steckling and others,
who are really staying
with the bodies of research
and trying to bridge these gaps.
>> MARLER: Absolutely.
I mention in my book one
of the biggest problems
we have with this field are
the UFO believers themselves.
We badmouth the government.
We say the government's
covering this up.
The government's
suppressing information.
Just in my 23 years of active
investigation in this field,
I've seen more damage
done by the UFO community
to itself, self-inflicted
gunshot wound,
as I like to call it, as opposed
to anything that I've ever
been able to
substantially document
that the government has done.
Certainly the government
downplays the information.
But to your point,
there's competing agendas.
People have certain agendas
with regard to this.
There's certain egos.
And as I like to
say, the phenomenon
revolves around no one ego.
We revolve around
the phenomenon.
It's not the other way around.
And as a community, we need
to be able to disagree but not
be disagreeable
with one another.
And at the end of
the day, it doesn't
matter what David
Marler believes.
It doesn't matter with
this researcher believes
or that believes.
What does the evidence show?
And that's really
why I try to stick
with documentable,
verifiable evidence.
Let the information
take you to where
it leads, whether
you like it or not.
>> REGINA: Well, what's it going
to take to have a mature voice
at these conferences to
bridge all of that now?
>> MARLER: The problem
is, in my opinion,
the phenomenon itself
have no parameters.
As you mentioned, there's all
of these different aspects
to the phenomenon,
so we can't even
quantify what the phenomenon is.
So when you have
someone coming in
and they say that
they're the reincarnation
of an alien entity from the
planet Kobol or whatever,
can you really
discount this person?
Because where is the
benchmark for crazy
when you have people saying that
they have bald-headed creatures
coming into their bedroom
and abducting them?
So there are no parameters
to the phenomenon
that we can clearly
define, which
that creates an atmosphere
where everything kind of gets
poured into this mix.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> MARLER: And it's
just very difficult,
because at the end of the day,
65-plus years of investigation,
we still really don't know
what we're dealing with.
But just because
we can't identify
it doesn't mean it's there.
>> REGINA: Well, you
have little pixels--
>> MARLER: We do.
>> REGINA: --many pixels.
It's starting to create
a larger portrait.
>> MARLER: And I think we
need to take a step back,
to go with that analogy.
Take the step back and
look at the big picture,
and suddenly those
little individual pixels
start to paint a picture.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> MARLER: And that's
a good analogy.
>> REGINA: Well, now one of the
specifics you talked about that
I found interesting-- and I
think I found it interesting
because of the startling
image I saw in Jaime
Maussan's presentation
yesterday, which wasn't a UFO,
by the way.
It was this thing,
this being caught--
I don't know if you
saw his presentation--
>> MARLER: I think I--
>> REGINA: --caught in night
vision that was somehow taking
energy from this swimming pool.
>> MARLER: Oh, no,
that one I missed.
I saw most of his presentation.
>> REGINA: I'm talking to Jaime
about this in a few weeks--
>> MARLER: OK.
>> REGINA: --aside from
all of the other things.
He has so much phenomenal video.
>> MARLER: Oh, absolutely.
>> REGINA: I found it
really interesting.
It was massive,
this large thing.
It almost looked
like it had wings.
It was doing something
with its energy
extending into or taking
energy from a swimming pool.
>> MARLER: Hmm.
>> REGINA: Now you're saying
these triangular craft often
appear above reservoirs.
>> MARLER: There's a lot of
sightings in and around water,
not so much in but around water.
>> REGINA: Well, and then you
have the supposed phenomenon
of underwater bases, which
have been witnessed by many,
many people, with UFOs
rising out of the water.
>> MARLER: Absolutely.
In fact, the 1973 wave of
sightings I alluded to,
the Piedmont sightings,
there's an area there which,
when I was a young boy, I used
to go fishing there with my dad
all the time.
It's called Clearwater
Lake and Clearwater Dam.
And back in '73, there was
two women driving in a car,
and they were pulled
off to the side.
And they reported seeing-- and
there were other witnesses,
by the way, as well
later that reported
seeing the same thing-- lights
moving underwater in Clearwater
Lake.
>> REGINA: Yes.
And I know one of
the primary areas
in the world for these
sightings of USOs,
they call them, Unidentified
Submerged Objects, is, I think,
the Channel Islands.
It's right off the coast of
Los Angeles near the Channel
Islands.
That's where most of it is
seen, a good amount of it.
There's supposed to be
a base of some kind.
But I guess the point being
something about what's
happening between these
craft-- and you probably
don't know the answer.
I don't know-- what's
happening between these craft
and these bodies of water?
>> MARLER: That I don't know.
But as many people
have speculated,
perhaps that's
where they're based,
or that's where they're
originating from.
>> REGINA: So you think
that might have-- I see.
>> MARLER: Considering the
volume of water on the planet
relative to the surface area--
>> REGINA: It makes total sense.
>> MARLER: And we can't go to
these ridiculously deep depths
due to the pressures.
So if we can't go
there but they can,
that's a great place to have
a base of operations, assuming
that they exist in this
spatial, temporal realm
that we exist in,
which, of course, is
another area of speculation.
Maybe they don't
exist in this realm,
but they're able to simply
slip in and then slip out.
>> REGINA: Yes, quite possibly.
So in summary, all
of the work you've
done for all of
these years, A, what
is it that you find the
most fascinating and hopeful
in all of this?
And what do you find
the most frustrating?
What do you think is
the one part we really
have to transcend before
any kind of merging
with this technology or other
civilizations can happen?
>> MARLER: I think
the biggest obstacle--
let me start with the hope.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> MARLER: I think the thing
that instills hope with me is
regardless of all our efforts
within the UFO community,
as you know, every day someone
is having a UFO experience
somewhere.
So regardless of the
disclosure that we all
love to talk about by
our government leaders,
every day someone's
life is changing
with the sighting of an
unconventional aerial object.
And so slowly each
individual in our society
is waking up to a larger
reality that UFOs are real.
I can't tell you
how I times I've
interviewed law enforcement
officers over the years that
told me if you would have come
in here a year ago telling me
you investigated UFOs, I would
have told you there's the door.
But I know what I saw, and I
can't deny that stuff anymore.
And every day someone's having
an experience like that.
So the scale in our
favor is turning,
whether the governments of
the world like it or not.
As the citizenry continues
to experience these things,
more people are waking
up to a greater reality,
regardless of what we
do in the UFO field.
It's just happening.
It's just occurring.
>> REGINA: And what's
the greatest frustration?
>> MARLER: The frustration
I have is that I think we,
as researchers, need to
define, myself included,
what we know versus
what we believe.
And there's a huge gap.
And quite often you'll
find researchers
that do sloppy work, that
are stating what they know.
When you parse the data
and you look at it,
it's like we really
can't say we know that.
And it's arguments
similar, unfortunately,
to people that are
of a religious bent.
>> REGINA: Yes.
Very true.
>> MARLER: They'll say, well,
I know God is here for me,
and I know this.
And I would try to correct them.
It's like, well,
you believe that.
I said, religion is faith-based.
Faith is based on belief
in the absence of fact.
And I said, I
respect you for that.
But I said, you
can't say you know.
You believe it.
Oh, no, I know.
I know.
And unfortunately, we see
parallels in the UFO community
with regard to that.
People say, I know why
the aliens are here.
Well, maybe you do.
Maybe you've had an
on-board experience
that I'm just not privy to.
But there's a lot of researchers
and a lot of people out there
that casually will throw
that word out there, I know.
And if you say you
know, you better
have something to back it up.
>> REGINA: So interestingly,
when we look at disclosure,
let's have disclosure, the
drums have been beating
for disclosure, public
disclosure on behalf
of the military and
governments of the world,
which has been withheld.
But when you look at
the argument for that--
and we've heard the various
stages through the decades
of what is likely to have
been the argument on behalf
of the superiors in the military
and so forth and is the public
ready for it?-- well,
considering just this
conversation, considering the
fact that there are likely
multiple intelligences
coming in multiple varieties
of spacecraft for a multiple
variety of agendas and reasons,
is humanity ready to take
this whole thing on when
it's so overwhelmingly
complex and easy to exploit
by the media, which they are
doing on the negative side?
>> MARLER: Well, in my book
I talk about the fact that I
sympathize with
governments of the world.
It's a difficult
situation to be in.
They're charged
with the task of, A,
protecting the citizenry,
first and foremost,
and ensuring
domestic tranquility.
That's hard to do when you're
faced with intelligence
or intelligences
that are superior
by their very definition.
They can get here.
We can't get there.
So you're faced
with that situation.
But as I like to
point out, we always
talk about government
conspiracy.
We always talk
about the cover-up
when we talk about disclosure.
The point I like to make--
and I can't emphasize
this enough-- the ultimate
architects of the UFO cover-up
are the intelligences that
are operating these craft.
If they wanted to
come down en masse,
clearly nobody is going
to be able to stop them
from doing that.
But that's not in their agenda.
Clearly that's not
in their agenda.
So is the government
suppressing information?
Absolutely, based
on all evidence
that's highly
suggestive of that.
But the ultimate
architects of the cover-up
are the extraterrestrials or
these entities themselves.
It's up to them.
They have the power.
They have the
technological superiority.
If they wanted to
come down en masse,
they would be here right now.
But whatever their agenda, it
serves them to be more covert.
>> REGINA: That's
a very good point.
If it could only be as easy as
"The Day the Earth Stood Still"
film, 1951 version.
>> MARLER: One of the best
films ever made on the subject.
>> REGINA: One of the best.
Very simple, very
peaceful, profound message,
kind of a monochromatic
message for all of humanity.
>> MARLER: And one that I
think still holds true today.
>> REGINA: It does hold true.
>> MARLER: Because,
unfortunately,
you look at our society today,
have we really changed that
much?
>> REGINA: No.
>> MARLER: Technology's changed.
Technology's changed,
but the same greed,
the same petty
differences that we
have between countries,
religions, cultures,
we're still dealing with that.
And that's why when
people say, why
don't the aliens
come down and land?
It's like, why
would they want to?
And that's the thing about UFOs.
We have to take the research
lens and turn it on ourselves.
Because really, at
the end of the day,
if we are dealing with
a superior culture,
where do we fall in relation
to that, in contrast to that?
And unfortunately, we
are a primitive society,
relative to them,
that's still engaged
in primitive tribal warfare.
We can try to dress it up.
We can put lipstick on a pig.
But at the end of the day,
we're still a primitive culture
engaged in basic
tribal warfare that
has refined the art of
killing to a fantastic degree.
>> REGINA: Indeed.
>> MARLER: But at least we're
still here as a species--
>> REGINA: So the question is--
>> MARLER: --so there's hope.
>> REGINA: --what is our
responsibility in this contact?
>> MARLER: Absolutely.
I think our
responsibility first is
to learn how to get
along with each other
before we can
expect to get along
with any type of
extraterrestrial or alien
civilization.
Until we can prove
that to them--
because I'm sure
they're monitoring
our behavior, probably
for centuries--
until we can demonstrate and
prove to them that we can get
along as a species, why would
they want to deal with us?
>> REGINA: On that
note, good point,
and I thank you for your time.
>> MARLER: Thank you.